Discussion of executative committee..  gage and  Rich

Discussion of where to meet next.  Garret and Scott and Stuart will look 
into the next meeting location.  Talk today and discuss tomorrow.  Have it 
ready for the conference call in the morning.  Talk to Forrest about any 
relevant issues that need to be discussed.  Ken and Jeff are in the call 
for sure, but will try to get the new USDA rep in as well...

Discussion on term of exec positions.  Should it maintain as a 2 year?  
Gage noted that this is one of the few committees of its type that is 
currently in existance.  Garret noted that the secretary would rotate into 
the chair and thus require a 4 year committement.  Dennis notes that the 
secretary position is not very intensive.  Perhaps a rewrite of how the 
secretary position will not roll into chair.  David notes that our 
meetings could be piggy backed onto our another.  Probably not a good idea 
with not everybody being at the same meeting.  

Gage moves to have a 2 year chair and an annual secretary and a decoupling 
of ascension.  Scott seconds.  No discussion.   No discent...

Pull stuff from your CRIS(?) report and submit it from summary.

Discussion of do we need to vote to have someone join.  Make sure that the 
appendix is updated to add new members.

Dong noted that Minnesota should be picking up the cost of the room and 
perhaps the conference call. 

INTRODUCTARY TALKS

Stuart Gage (Michigan State) 
  Regional Analysis of Carbon in Agroecosystems.

  - Built something called MASH .NET
  - Has the 10 million dataset record of the NC 71-00
  - Impressive stuff from his setup
  - http://www.cevl.msu.edu
  - Looking for collaborators to help take up the task before he 
    retires.  Need some help with the computer architecture.

Scott (Kansas State)
  - "Life after corn", "Crop rotation is planting a different hybrid"
  - Watering down huge feed lots...
  - How much water it takes to produce ethanol?  An interesting topic
    our group needs to discuss.

(Discussion of meeting in Lincoln or in Florida...  and what time to 
meet...  Dennis mentions having a quarterly/bianual conference call...)

Rich Grant (Purdue)
  - Soybean rust modelling work.
  - Observational experimentation in Florida this year UVB inactivation
  - CO2 exchange from organic soils
  - Model to estimate UV-A exposures
  - What does it take to flip soybean leafs

Stuart Gage mentioned this story in Bio Science on Soybean Rust.

Gerrit (Georgia)
  - Struggle to maintain 68 sites within the state
  - Use land lines and have start using WiFi and other technologies
  - http://www.georgiaweather.net
  - Water balance calculator
  - Talked about Ken Crawford's LETS  (very difficult to maintain)
  - 1,500 dollars for spread spectrum radios
  - Decision Support System for Agrotechnology Transfer
  - http://www.agclimate.org/

Ken Boote (Florida)  Modeling Crop Growth ...
  - Parton Logoan function for hourly temperatures from daily hi/lo
  - 9-10% soybean yield increase in Iowa based on CO2 and small 
    temperature increase

David Greenland  (Louisana State University)
  - Interaction of weather and climate with vegetation
  - http://www.lsuagcenter.com/weather/
  - Contribute to crop modelling, irigation scheduling, and new 
    climatologies

Bob Seem (NY U - Geneva)
  - Grapes!
  - Use of the MASS model and hope to use WRF at some point in the 
    future.
  - iButton temperature sensor.  Deployed 150 of them
  - Looking at deploying small sensor package that is RF linked daisy
    chained together.

(Discussion on sensors and how this committee can address those needs...)

Rich suggests a "Wet-off" to build a standard for leaf wetness sensors...

Dong Wang  (Minnesota)
  - Intensity of intense storms is getting stronger...
  - Looking for a pristine environment.
  - Some research done on remote sensing, QuikBird
  - Global FluxNET

Pat Guinan (Missouri)
  - Realtime weather and custom weather analysis (horizon point)
  - Shows page templates for each site, astromical database
  - Horizon point, grid point data from the NDFD
  - Forecasted winds for site specific location
  - Looking at more models in the upcoming season...
  - Email interactive

(Talk about doing something as a group to advance NC1018 goals...)

Daryl Herzmann (Iowa State)
  - I talked some...

Dennis Todey (SD State)
  - Weather sensors
  - Evapotranspiration issues over the west
  - Negative Correlation for rainfall in Ohio Valley
  

(Break time...)

lansat.org

We will have a midterm review next year...

What is our area of coverage?  Gage, perhaps the geographic is no longer 
important.  We can make our stuff go anywhere in the country.  Groups are 
more topic oriented than geographical.  Perhaps they really want to see 
that we are doing something over multiple states.  Noted that most states 
are working on most of the topics.  It is important that we are making 
progress on these objectives.  Just need to do a better job documenting 
what resources we are getting external.  Note how we are using our NC94 
dataset to put in other grant monies.

ASK Forrest about the mid-term...

Have some sort of standard format for how we document our work.

Atlas:

  Contiguous database for the 1055 counties in the region.  Important to 
support modelling over the region.  Needs to extend to the web and provide 
some more documentation.  Bob talked to the Ag Extension in Sept 2004 to 
mass produce the files.  Face page for each of the maps.  Need to be able 
to interrupt what they are seeing.  We have had a few people come up with 
some suggestions on what can be done to the maps.  The directors want to 
see a website to build maps and download data.   Need to have support to 
put up a quality website.  Can't just throw something together.  Who could 
write a description of the datasets?

Note of how we need money to do research that is needed.  Why get travel 
money if no money to do the work?  The funding of the money is much 
different at various sites.  Not a very smooth subset.  Note how much it 
takes to build these datasets. Issue is the funding model for the updating 
of this dataset.  Could Phil Basteris be of help to bring this data 
online?  It would be a shame not to be put it up...

Most people should have a copy of the dataset.  Seperate issues of 
updating the dataset and pushing it out to the website.  Need to ask the 
climate centers if they are willing to sheppard these datasets.   The 
application of this county based dataset to watershed stuff?  Is the data 
quality any better now with these new datasets?  COOP/NERON hoping to meet 
the needs of data quality.  The climate data means the county yield data.

Need to have the entire committee participate in the building of the 
dataset.  Have a value behind the dataset.  How difficult is the updating 
on this dataset?   All of the data is at the climate centers...  Benchmark 
dataset could be used as something to test against for climate change.

Value of expanding the dataset to the coasts?  Putting together important 
datasets for other groups to use to make important decisions.  Need to 
push this issue with Forrest tomorrow.

Everyone on the committee shouldn't have to work thru this...  What about 
the Oregon State folks?  Importance of the metadata again.  Need to get 
the stuff from the Illinois folks.  

Perhaps discuss this with the NCDC folks?  Perhaps they could provide 
small amounts of funding and standards for how we could expand.

OTHER OBJECTIVES:

  Do we have things that could meet these other objectives?  Generate corn 
bore phenology map, did High Plains already do it?  

What happened to Steve's phenology database?  Some states have it and some 
states don't.  Somebody should go have a mind meld with Steve to see how 
these datasets were built and can be maintained.

Overwintering of insects and pests.  Getting after the warmer winters?  
Looking at high impact stuff.

Ken asks about a database of reported events.  Stuart hoed that row.  
Politics killed it and storage demands were too much in ...  What about 
the CAPS program still around?  Largely uneffective.

This is something that USDA should be going at:

Conference Call:  8:30 to 10:30  What to discuss?

  - Tried to get the USDA contact in on the conference call. If he doesn't 
    show up, then Dennis will get comments later... 

  - Tell CREES rep what we are doing within the committee...

  - Ask about changing from 1 to 2 year appointments.  Tell him at least.

  - Concerns over future withdrawls of Hatch fund and perhaps now into 
    a competetive process.

  - Tell him about new members / new states?


Need to discuss nominations / next location / plans.

Discussing 1.2 Irrigation?  Heat/precipitating index.  Carlson's arridity 
index stuff.  Make a run at a decision support system?  What is the value 
of irrigation?  Buy out farmers from consuming water?  Inseason tools 
versus historical tools?

Need an economist?  SDSU maybe has one?
